# Optimizing an ML Pipeline in Azure

## Overview
This project is part of the Udacity Azure ML Nanodegree.
In this project, we build and optimize an Azure ML pipeline using the Python SDK and a provided Scikit-learn model.
This model is then compared to an Azure AutoML run.

## Summary
The data is related with direct marketing campaigns of a bank , there were 16 columns which describes more about the client and the Target column was whether a client
will subscribe a term deposit or not (variable y). This is a classification problem. 


**In 1-2 sentences, explain the solution: e.g. "The best performing model from the Auto Ml which had a Accuracy of 0.91741 using XG Boost Classifier  "**


## Scikit-learn Pipeline
**Explain the pipeline architecture, including data, hyperparameter tuning, and classification algorithm.**

A Custom Coded Model (Logistic Regression) was used and it was further optimized by Hyperdrive functions in Azure ML.H yperparameter tuning is a process where 
automatically adjusting process to take control of the training process. All the trial and error methods are automated to bring out the best fit using the 
Hyperparameter tuning.   


**What are the benefits of the parameter sampler you chose?**

In my run , i have used Random Parameter Sampling which randomly selects the data for 
finding the best fit for training the data.

**What are the benefits of the early stopping policy you chose?**

I also have Bandit policy which basically checks the whether the accuracy falls within the Top 10% range for every iteration , it automatically removes the iterations where it is beyond the 10% 
and this helps in using the resources optimaly and also saves time. 

## AutoML
**In 1-2 sentences, describe the model and hyperparameters generated by AutoML.**

AutoML Config is away of leveraging the SDK to automate the Machine learning , from the doing feature engineering to the selecting the best algorithm for the 
data everything will be automated in the Auto ML. In my case , the best model was XG Boost Classifier with a Accuracy of 0.9174.


## Pipeline comparison
**Compare the two models and their performance. What are the differences in accuracy? In architecture? If there was a difference, why do you think there was one?**

Using Logistics regression and the HyperParameter tuning the best model accuracy was 0.91 but from AutoML the best accuracy was 0.92. In terms of Hyperparameter 
tuning , we had to set the configurations in  Hyperdrive but for the AutoMl everything was automatically created by the Model. 
 

## Future work
**What are some areas of improvement for future experiments? Why might these improvements help the model?**

Getting to know more about features and how it is caluculated would be very usefull for the Model Interpretation and business.Sometimes using a Automl and 
Optimizing the function to have the best fit can have lot of Mathematical transformations of the variabels but may not be useful for the business. 
Hence need more visibility of the calcualtion of features might improve the performance of the model


## Proof of cluster clean up
**If you did not delete your compute cluster in the code, please complete this section. Otherwise, delete this section.**
**Image of cluster marked for deletion**
